Day1 (4/1)
Write-up deadline is June 7th (last day of class)
	can use ARCSAT, MAST, SDSS... generally optical
	(should I do things with MRO, solar telescope, radio???)
Shells are variants on unix that set behaviors on how you interact with it. default is bash.
	(ubuntu failed me so I'm going to replace my operating system eventually)
	(do ls -a to see invisible files)
Navigate unix with overthewire.org/wargames/bandit

Day2 (4/3)
A fork is a separate cloned copy of the repository that i can work on separately without affecting the main tree
a branch is within the main tree but doesnt touch all of the files?
a remote is a pointer for the fork; a local boy is the thing that you have to commit and push to a designated remote.
saved list of collaboration git commands at https://education.github.com/git-cheat-sheet-education.pdf

Day3 (4/5)
Got assigned Lick Observatory, window of observation starting april 1st and ending april 15th
Spent a lot of time searching through different catalogues of quasars until we found one visible from the northern hemisphere
Spent the rest of the time formating different timezone readouts, making sure the local time was different from UTC which is different from arizona time

Day4 (4/8)
Got another partner who did research on quasars and had a catalogue containing much fewer quasars than had been downloaded from SDSS
turned the data into a panda table, learned how to rearrange/rename/delete columns, and finished up the activity for apache point
learned how to set the origin for my remote, got yelled at for using sudo

Day5 (4/10)
spent downloading astroplan and becoming familiar with target lists
didnt know there was a function for constraining the targets based on ra and dec and spent a substantial amount of time drawing the galactic coordinate system

Day6 (4/12)
created a mask of the panda data frame that only contains targets viewable at night
converted coordinates to hr angle and degree using skycoords
input the window start/end times, converted to an interval occurring at astr twilight
constrains contained moon illumination
created a table using observability_table(constrains, lick, targets, time_range=observing_range)
ran into an error where the constrains arent recognized. almost done with this, will submit code tomorrow after volunteering at astroball =)

Day7 (4/15)
freedom w data used for the final paper but PROBS just 1 day of ARCSAT
with reading scientific papers (for the purposes of obtaining references):
-read abstract/conc n look at plots first
-search via keywords
-use ags to see if the paper is one in a series
-summarize what you read immediately after reading, and include bibtec info alongside, store in an accessible place
ideas:
-cepheid variable... cant compare across wavelengths
-constraints on observation is what should be focused on. dealing with data, dealing with noise
-delta scuti ? on the instability strip, timescale of pulsation is only a few hours
-astroseismology?? looking for pulsational modes using kepler r-tests, short timeseries of bright stars, talk to merideth rawls (?)
-deblending/centroiding to find binaries, depending on resolution
