Test Lab Journal.
Thank you again for extending this assignment. I just got back from my trip. 

April 8, 2019 (Monday)
It took me a bit of time to relearn how to use python for astronomical analysis, but I was  able to slowly figure things out again, thanks to looking at old assignments from Astro 300 with Toby. Missing class on Friday set me back a little, and I was unable to finish the in-class assignment observing M31.

April 10, 2019 (Wednesday)
I was not feeling well, so I was unable to make it to class. My partner Brandon and I were working on the project, but because he is out of town, it was harder to work on the project together. 

April 12, 2019 (Friday)
Today, we are supposed to work on the group project and turn it in. My partner has the paper, and he will be out of town until the end of the weekend. We will continue working on the group project throughout the weekend using the extension.

April 15, 2019 (Monday)
In class, we talked about the research project proposal. Talking to classmates, I was able to get an idea of what I wanted to do for my research project. I landed on quasars. We talked a lot about them throughout upper-level Astronomy courses, and I thought they were interesting. I am still unsure of what to do with it, but I will figure this out at a later time. My partner being out of town until Sunday, we also finished up our Night Sky in-class assignment.

April 17, 2019 (Wednesday)
We worked on a work sheet that we obtained in class; the worksheet focused on FITS files. I did not get very far in this project.

April 19, 2019 (Friday)
Touched bases on the project proposal again. Talked about how a photon can make its way into a telescope to become a FITS file. Finished working on project proposals. After talking with Shaun, we decided to take on the group project together.

April 22, 2019 (Monday)
In class today, we learned to use a spectrometer to figure out what kind of elements were being shown. When the light is viewed through a spectrometer, there are several dominate waves that are shown to help identify the type of element being shown. My eyes were a little tired from being in the dark and squinting to see where the specific waves fell on the spectrometer.

April 24, 2019 (Wednesday)
We finished up our spectroscope activity in the beginning of class. There were people who did not attend class on Monday, so this activity dragged on a bit. But after getting my lab done, I confirmed with Shaun on what we needed for our observation project. I read a bit a research paper on quasars, and went back home about fifteen minutes early.

April 26, 2019 (Friday)
I worked on my research project.

April 29, 2019 (Monday)
I wasn't feeling well, so I stayed home. I talked to a classmate to see what I missed. I ended up researching CCDs on my own time to prepare myself for Wednesday.

May 1, 2019 (Wednesday)
I collected data from a CCD all of this class with a few other classmates. This took the entirety of class. 

May 3, 2019 (Friday)
I had a meeting with a potential employer, so I did not make it to class. I ended up working on the data we collected from the CCD and read a bit more on my research.