Today I learned how to use github. Sort of.
I have no idea what to use for my research project. I like cosmology.
It sounds like the telescopes we have access to have limited spectroscopic abilities.

I need to have a meeting with the professor to figure out what a good project would encompass.

For the assignment of finding a catalog for finding quasars we were able to find the catalog on the NASA HEARSAR(sp?) website. The formatting needed to be fixed first so I used the FixedTarget command after I ran into issues with SkyCoord.

I made a plot to see what objects would be visible by ploting the attenuation, moon seperation, and altitude. I am trying to figure out how to factor in moon luminosty.

I used a moon phase calendar from google to check the moon phase during my time window at CTIO. 

I can still optimize the code better to sort the table by fractional observation time in order to rank objects for different observation times.

Potential projexts:
Is there galaxy rotational axis correlation: Requires a catalog with spectra to fit rotation curves. Correlate with galaxy classification, "Axis ratio", and density of galaxies in surrounding space. SDSS galaxy environment information catalog. https://www.sdss.org/dr15/data_access/value-added-catalogs/

I updated my notes for my project and have opened six papers and saved them to my Zotero.

It is difficult to work on this project only from the astrolab. I should figure out how to work on this from home.

Vignetting: dark regions at edges due to scattering

Bias/Overscan: give information about electronics. Might have something to do with amplifiers.

A large enough number of samples will cause many types of distrobutions (poisson included) into gaussian distributions.

Serial register/horizontal CCD: bottom row of CCD array. Gets pushed right to a single cell.

Dark current = thermal noise

quantum efficiency is bad for ~<300nm

n_{tot}=sqrt{(n_{phot})^2+(n_{dark})^2+(n_{read})^2+(n_{bias})^2}

noise=sqrt{signal}

want to subtract dark current from scan by exposing for same amount of time.

bias is read noise?

today we are beginning a characterization lab report on CCDs. Refer to the back of the packet for grading.

Compare measurements with vendor information.

Gain: #electrons/ADU. But it is somehow inversely related to the gain of the amplifier?

Must take two bias frames and two flatfield exposures to get difference images

get ___ for single files and mget ___* for all files that begin with the same starting part.

We are working on a new Reducing Imaging Data using Bias, Flats, Darks, and Images.

Thus far I have been using ds9 to collect data for the processes. I will probably have to come in over the weekend because my personal research is pressing and I have a group meeting presentation coming up tomorrow. Yay 19 credits...

PSF - point spread function. Must make sure that we are subtracting background from our image to ensure our signal is all from our object

There are many different sources that can be giving different point spread functions as well as varying the background at all background wavelengths.

To find the background you can point at a "dark" area of sky and try to characterize the background.

Masking nearby objects might make sense if the point spread function is an issue.

Does is make sense to define the center of the object as its peak.

Have to deal with other objects that may not be spatially resolvable as well as other galaxies with foreground stars.

When using data for Aperature photomotry it is best to use point sources.

Using the gaussian fits in DAOStarFinder it seems to REALLY like some of my brightest stars. It tends to fit more gaussians to my brightest stars and I don't see any parameters to adjust this.

adjusting the FWHM to be larger seems to have helped but may have just better stacked the same gaussians. Tough to say.

This is a lot of work for this week. Mary gates is tomorrow and I can't come to class and we have the rough draft of our paper due Monday. I think the Reducing Imaging Data would have been fine if it was accompanied by a jupyter notebook for the apperature and PSF portions. Maybe I'm just really bad at coding though.

The reducing image data lab was long but informative. I enjoyed being able to work with PSF in this context but wish I was able to get a better handle on it in python.

The bias removal and overscan removal were both relatively straight forward problems. The concatenation with the removal of the overscan was tough to figure out but simple now that I know how to do it.

I didn't get to work through the different filter sets but I work with confocal microscopy so I feel like a have a good intuition for what the data sets would look like.

My research project has good direction now and I have most of my data analysis method figured out. I am sure that my concept of "position" from RA, DEC, and Z needs some sort of expansion correction and that I shouldn't use it as typical spherical coordinates. I can just come in after the data anylitics are set up though and I intend to.

I don't expect to see much of a signal but I know exactly what my signal should look like and how I can best plot it to reflect a correlation that is dependant on galaxy morphology. Again though, I don't expect to see much at all.

I am having issues sorting out how to account for oversampling in a changing phase space for the spin correlations. When calculating statistics I believe I can multiply each data point by cos(theta) with theta being the spin difference. After doing this the average spin orientation should point at 45 degrees if I properly accounted for the phase space oversampling. If not I will need to hit the drawing board with my head a few more times.

I am very much looking forward to any results I get but even more so to having a data anylitic structure set up for comparing spin correlations. Maybe I'll be able to refine it for a more targeted galaxy spin allignment study in the future.

If I do get a result I will do everything I can to try and blame it on some error I made before interpretting it. I will have some interpretations however just in case. I am going for a writting credit after all.

 have been reading plenty of papers trying to get a better idea of my final direction for my paper. I am going to need to write a lot for it this weekend before and after my friend's wedding in eastern washington.

It has been exciting making headway on the project learning how to read in SDSS catalogs and figuring out a nested for loop for the most calculation intensive portion of my project.

The target galaxy that my code gave me is apparently obscured by a foreground star. Fortunately I have the numbers I need printed out so I will figure out how to put them into a dictionary and find the best correlation galaxy.

I wanted to find different candidate galaxies with varying z values but the DR15 data does not appear to have very large z values. I will show the range of each of the data points I have in a table on my paper so that it is clear what I am working with.

Even if I don't finish this project fully by Friday I would love to keep working on my code over the summer and maybe something interesting will end up popping out of it.

I at least will have enough for some interesting plots and I believe I've settled all my oversampling mechanisms besides edge-on extinction undersampling.

Last week!:

This week is a rush trying to get everything done for my final project but I enjoy a good challenge!

I used the plots from my third draft to reduce my data set by finding outliers on apparent magnitude (-999 what?!), RA and dec excluding isolated galaxies, and T-type removing ellipticals and irregulars. This made working with my data set about 4 times more efficient.

I was able to get out the max, median, and min correlated galaxies and began plotting them the night before the project was due. The phase space oversampling was as I expected and for the most part appears to be well corrected with a simple cos(theta) convolution.

I  would have liked to spend more time on ML but my brain was too dead this week to dive as deeply into it as I would have liked to.

This has been a wonderfully informative class and like every other astro class I've taken it leaves me excited for the next one. I learned muchly about galaxy angular momentum origins and todal torque theory connecting dark matter to galaxy spins and filament structure. I am taking cosmology in Fall so I hope to be able to dive deeper into the structure of the cosmic web. 

I will recommend this class to everyone interested in astro research!
-Chris Moore
