This first week was spent setting up github and getting use to it.
I reviewed some Unix commands.
I found out I could use nano as a txt editor (learned how to save and exit).
I don't really know what I am supposed to put in lab journals.
I also have no idea what I want to research or even how to figure out what I
want to research. 

Date: Monday April 8
Worked through theobserving M31 activity. I had to review astropy and figure 
out Jskycalc. 
Also found out I can get data tables from NASA, which was helpful for the
activity: Planning Observations. 

Date: Wednesday April 10
I worked on the activity Planning Observations. I had to figure out what
constraints would be relavent (airmass, distance from moon, astronomical
twilight) and how to apply them to my list of objects. I managed to get
a reasonable list of objects I can observe. Now, I just got to figure out
what to do with that list.
Also, https://www.calendar-12.com/moon_calendar/2019/march is a useful 
website for figuring out the moon phase.

Date: Friday April 12
I finished up the Planning Observation assignment. I keep forgetting how to 
clone repositories, so I am going to put the steps here:
1. Copy link from github
2. Go to the derectory you want to put it in
3. type "git clone" then paste the link
4. Hit Enter!

Anika also thought me that in jupyter notebook, highlighting a line and
hitting the quotes key will put quotes around that line. I found that
to be a handy trick.

I felt pretty proud of myself for figuring out how to get the observing
activity onto github by myself. Now I just hope my code is correct and is
actually doing what I think it is doing.

Joke of the week: What does noise does a space turkey make?
			Hubble, hubble, hubble!

WEEK 3

Date: Monday, April 15

Today we started working on our research proposal. I still don't understand
what to do. So, after having a slight mental break down, I decided I would 
try to keep things simple. My goal for this class is to learn how to do
research and how to operate a telescope remotely. I am hoping just looking
at a few, or maybe just one in-depth, open star clusters with the ARCSAT
and getting whatever information I can the it. 

I am probably going to use this list of open clusters:
http://cdsarc.u-strasbg.fr/ftp/cats/B/ocl/
and astropy to see what clusters are visible during our window at ARCSAT.

Date: Wednesday, April 17

I died a little on the inside trying to do the FITS files assignment. I
started by using QFitsView and after waisting a lot of time trying to 
complete the assigned tasks, I gave up on Q and downloaded ds9. After 
many sighs and raised hands, I shakily managed to do the first part of 
the assignment. Trying to start the second part of the assignment, I 
realized the file I needed wasn't in the ones given.

Notes for ds9:
When creating a region, to draw it you have to go to edit then region.
For histogram graphs, to change the range you have to unclick automatic.

I am turning this journal in early since I won't be able to go to class on 
Friday.

Joke of the week: What is an astronauts favorite key on they keyboard?
                  The space bar!

