Test. I am testing to make sure this works

open NightSky then jupyter notebook then astroconda and attempt to run. git add NAME git commit -m "" git push
Pull request

4/8/19
will be given an observatory and a night, look for a month later. find a list 
that has about 20 items. is it better to get rained out?

4/10

Continue working on the navigating project, it got really messed up. EVENTUALLY
I got something to work. Still unsure if I am actually doing the right thing,
but at least the table is working now! Next time I will be looking at the moon
illumination and changing the date. Hoepfully I'll get it done. I am learning
more about formating tables.

4/12

I am continuing to work on the project. I am not looking at the moon
illumintion part. So it is basically done. still having a few issues doing
some of the extra stuff, like plotting the moons path across the sky.

4/15

I looked over a few different articles and decided to do something with
globular clusters. I think I will be comparing globular clusters. One 
of which possibly created an open cluster. The paper discusses the proper 
motion, but I would also like to look at some of th eother factors, like
luminosity or the cmd or age. basically see that if there are any other
factors. I'd also like to see if there are any open clusters near by 
globular cluster of choice.

4/17

we looked at stuff with ds9, turn region on in edit before drawing the box. the ceter and size
have to do with x1 x2 y1 y2 i think.

4/19

looking over things to observe. i have finished my proposal and am excited
to start! Although I am still concerned I ont be able to get the code to
work.. Leanred more about the CMD. Look up more about Photometry. round stars
and pixels, only use full pixels. 

4/22

overscan, light has been blocked, only a little scattered light getting through
"souls have been trapped in telescope"
undering lying guides for distributions to understand what is happening in the system
CCD linear, to a point
pixels saturate
CCD changing in temperature, cool them or dark current will be high, also can't be
too cold or the electrns will be sluggish. 100secod image, need a dark thats a 100
second. dark same length as data working with. I looked at many lamps today. so 
many lamps.


4/24 I worked on the CCD homework, finished the lab and looked at when my
globular clusters will ride and set.

4/26

simbad, visar(?), everything that isnt important has a comment sign in front
(.... ,comment'#', delim_whitespace=True) instead of delim_ use(.., sep='\t')
de.drop([0,1]) #to drop rows, to do this to the original add# ,inplace=True]
mix type: string, float, int.. but sometimes it misses them. make all columns
numbers, .dtype

na_filer=
basically just keep trying stuff.

4/29

Started reading the CCD project and also looked over observing project more.

5/1

We took all of our pictures today and began working on the project. I ran into
an issue about my observing project. One program says I wont see it, but
another said I will?? Will take care of that 5/2. I think it'll work
because Prof. Tuttle showed me that I would be able to observe it and I'm
guessing I made an error.

we also got pizza 

5/3

Worked on the CCD code, I am done with gain and linearity and am currently
working on band_gap. I also did my observing last night!


5/6

characterzing CCDs;

full well-max number of electrons a pixel can hold? bigger pixels, binned, can
hold more charge
System gain constant-electrons per DN

full well- using a photon transfer curve
system gain control- PTC also
read noise- calculation sigma(standard deviation) of bias. Make sure to
use 'clean' parts of chip
Charge transfer efficiency; using Fe55 x ray source
dark current- by taking dark frames
quantum efficiency- flats and something calibrated

photon transfer 
		curves- read noise dominated- so few photons strongest noise 
		is from chip
		short noise- when the arrival time of the photons does a thing
		full well- turn over and start going down
two kinds of saturation- how many photons can you accecp. Analogue to digital
ADC has a certain number of bits, max output fot the CCD. will stop being able
to count. hardware and software. 

ptc: theory vs data, red is real, it turns over and enter nonlinear as it goes
into ful well. magenta, big issues in flat feild, not really flat and you can mask
it out
dark current is lower down and a linear line, but not linearity stuff
NOISE- three kinds of noise dominate at different regions. read noise we
remove with our bias.

the ccd eq.

S is sigmal, S* signal for object, Ss sky signal, t is time, dc dark current
R is read noise, G is gain. n is number of pixels

bias have zero exposure time, exposure not time, additive and we subtract it
flat field arent perfectly flat

flat-illuminated evenly by light

5/8

I worked on the bias/flat/fits lab thing. I am confused. I feel like I am 
behind in the actual project. I started my paper, but like have zero code.

wish me luck.

5/10

ra and dec- checking it on the header thing

(do i print the CCD paper? turn it in on github? canvas?)

overscan is the dark line down the center between different amplifiers
some cosmic rays and such
tiny white points in dark band- those are the cosmic rays and such. high
energy particles. (can we look at these for fun??) they are disrespectful 
jerks.

how to get rid of them?

how you load it in will make it different
if you read it in as an array there is a thin break in amp. ds9 is easier
a white line is also incorrect

DONT LICK THE CCD

not a lot of sky lines in the optical

5/13

confused.

psf (point spread function) the response of your telescope/instrument/system
to the object you are observing

systems have aberations, want as many photons from the object without introducing
noise from other sources. The sky glows. have this sky backgroud, so they all have sky counts
in the image that we need to get rid of. astronmical bckground effects, but they still cause a
background, also local source. caused by dust.
how do we calculate sky.
does proximity matter?
apperature photometry- how much energy in appeature
PSF- 

what shape is youre apperature
wheres the center?
exclude nearby objects?
how far away should sky pixels be?
how to deal with large objects?


5/15

Well I figured out the data reduction up to PSF(??)

5/17

tie into larger field, and say how the stuff youre doing is realated to the 
larger field. ads and type in key words
intro, methods/data, results/discussion, conclusion, 
methids: what're you looking at, wheres it coming from, very explicit about
lables, most of paper will be in methods, with a little in results
guess in results, weird result, what does it mean, its okay not to know
results, i fit this to this and i think it means this
report vs interpret

intro and conlusion shorter

Details: show data, plots and tables. dont need to put all images in, but
put one as an example. Nothing should only exsist in captions.

refer to figures

reference a lot.

units and everything. lable..


5/20

I read a paper and worked on my own.


5/22

I worked on my paper more and finished up the lab.

5/24

got a new lab. I am already confused. i made the star finder and finished
my lab.


5/29

I began the newest lab. the Project is going well!!

5/31

began working on project- got a headache and went home. Finihed it wehn I
got home and continued to work of 480! (thanks for letting me turn this in 
latter, its really, really appreciated!!)
