Astr 480 Week 2 Journal by Wayne Lai


Use of JSkyCalc.. Monday, April 08

The input target object was m31. The tool doesn't seem to have a list of names, so finding the item by name came back blank. Instead, website like Simbad can help find the m31 and its coordinates, which can be put into the JSkyCalc tool. More coveniently, desired view date and time can be put in to see what the sky look like on that particular time, this function is used to see the behavior of the object at a future date.

For the observing site, Apache Point wasn't on the list provided, yet going to the APO website, the coordinates can be found and put into the tool. Though the longitude is in a weird format, it is converted automatically when a degree is put in. Lastly, the elevation is found on the official APO website.

The Seasonal Observability is used to find how visible the object is throughout the year. This function outputs a detailed chart, which includes the airmass of the object at many different dates. Though the chart only showed from January to August dued to suspected programming glitch, it is enough to display the trend of the observability of the item, and for the class to use the tool to approximate the best season to observe the item.

The Nightly Almanac narrows the data down to the specified night of observaton. The hourly chart displays whether or not the object can be seen.

Auto Update is a feature that can be turn on and off to run the circumstances throughout the night. With the Sky Display, the motion of many items in the sky can be seen. The sky Display is also useful to see if the coordinate inputs were successfully read by the tool, as the apparent image will shift into the correct position.


The In-class Assignment.. Wednesday, April 10

Partner and I decided to look at the galaxies in the UGC list. Our dates are the latter half of the month of August and from the HET.

Using a tool provided by Astroplan, constraints such as the date and sunrise and sunset can be used to see what galaxies can be seen on our location at the specified date. This is a long list, we can limit the list to hundred, and narrow it down more by randomly picking ten of them. Once the ten items are selected, the right acsention and declination can be displayed on a simple chart.

An airmass vs time graph can be generated to see when the individual galaxies are most visible. The graph can show us whether these galaxies are visible at similar hours during the night, or if their best visibility is spread throught the night.

Knowing the motion of the moon is the next step, as if it overlapse an object, we won't be able to see the object. Astroplan conveniently has a constraint function that can take out items which are a certain distance away from the observor's point of view. This tool allows us to find out whether the items are obstructed by the moon.

Another thought would be to see the motion of the moon through the night. If the airmass of the moon is minimum at the same time as the minimum of some items, we can count on that item not easily seen. Overall, we are looking at the difference of airmass between the moon and the item, by setting some threshold, the smaller difference is indicative of the object being harder to see.

The same analysis is made a month later. Once again, airmass to time graph is generated by the same objects, with the moon included. Overlapping items are compared between the two dates and also the hours of minimal airmass. The comparison can be then made qualitatively and quantitatively to see if observability is better a month later.


Friday, April 12

The illumination of the moon was calculated to be very close to full (approximately 0.99). We concluded that the moon phase won't effect the observability.

Observation for a month later ended up being worse than the original observation. From the observing program used to determine the observability, setting the time to a month later results in eight of the items not being seen at all.

