lab journal Week 1

Learn the basic Unix command just like in Astro 300

for example: ls, cd, pwd

Use jupyter notebook to do python

choose a text editor, I think I will just use the visual studio code

Learn how to use github
the basic idea for github is that it is a version control tool for everyone
to contribute to one project. It is amazing to see how people use it for different
things.

git add FILE
git commit -m "commet"
git push
git pull

pull request: merge your file to the main repository that allow all people can contribute
to the same project

different tool that we can use:

SIMBAD, NED, astroplan

use astroplan to do obervation
Initiate a new oberver, can have many method that we can use

concept:
airmass, the moon immpedes obs, astronomical twilight

some practice about how to use astroplan.

Need to think about some possible research project!

learn how to use pull request feature !

Week 2

class 1
Finishing last week's assingment about how you can use different method to
do the same thing

Seasonal Obserbability can be dome by just looking at the RA from the vernal equnoix
then we need the sun in the opposite side

Or we can just see it in jSkyCalc

Length of the night can be just done in astroplan

class 2

Keep working on the planning observation

we choose to do binary star they are not that birght

we first pull all the data from the internet then try to see if it is visiable
in each night of our observation window

Obserbability table can be useful but we can only get if it is obserbable or not
we need more data related to it like airmass and location

class 3 

Still working on the planning obervation

We did the first part by test each day for wheather it is visiable or not 
from the astroplan 
if it is visiable more than 10 night then, we ramdom choose 10 of them to contiune

Moon is hard to work with, we try to plot the airmass for all the 10 object that works

but then we would not know how the moon illumination effect the obervation

Try to use some other tools to get this done. 

Week 3

Finally we are working on the project and try to come up with a project proposal

The resason that I love physic and astromy are mostly from science fiction, as the result "three body problem"
is one of my favourite novel.

I am thnk about doing something about the exo planet and triple star system

triple star system might just be too rare, I think I will add binary star too

For a planet to be habitable, it need to have the right temperture and stable orbit for life to form
also magnetic field, tidal effect, etc....

Working on the Fits file, it is a very interesting way to store image I only work with it on Astr 300
it directly record the data from the ccd and have some other feature can be add to the file encodeing

We talked about some basic idea about how to do observation. Including how a photon travel from a star to the fit file

Some basic tool and method that we can use to do observation, for example imaging and spectroscopy

Just noticed that fit file can also store spectroscopy data, it look nothing like a real picture

Filters: different type, U, R, I ...... each filter could need different treatment in terms of exposure time

differential vs. absolute photometry: need to do this becuase sometimes it is hard to find a reference star

Week 4
 Class 1

 distruibution difference between gaussis and poisson
 photon distruibute like poisson

 charge transfer: loss charge between transfer
 readout: readout from each pixel then transfer them to the next pixel, finally move all of them to the last roll

 QE comparisons

 Key feature:
    CCD are linear
    pixel can saturate
    gain is intrinsic
    Responsive in the optical
    CCD have become commercially viable

CMOS: the charge to voltage conversion are in the pixel

Noise:
    shot noise: photon arrival at the chop for any given interval is governed by the poisson distruibution
    Dark current: need to cool it, function of time , need dark which match the length of the time of exposure
    read noise: gaussian, around bias level

CLASS 2

    we did the experiment of spectroscopy, where we use a very simple spectroscopy device to look at different elements
    There are H that we can clearly see the three bright balmer series emission line. 

    Also many other elements for us to explore, the scope spectroscopy can get a better view of the spectrom line than the
    palastic one. 

    some line are repeated in different elements, I guess it is becuase they all have the same electron orbit energy which result
    in emmit the same frequence line

    We also did the filter experiment, which is simple, different filter are only allow certain band of frequence to be through
    THe interesting one is the UV filter which block most of the sunlight, but when you see a sunglasses from the UV filter,
    you see the sunglasses become transparent

CLASS 3
    we talked about some method to manipulate the data you can find from the catalog. Like add or delete some rows or coloumn
    Also, we looked about how to use fits file to draw in the python

Week 5 
Class 1

We start to working on a new project related to the CCD

The homework about CCD introduce a lot about it
Bias/overscan: region with 0 time exposure use it as a refrence frame
Possion distruibution random incident
photon can be approximated by the Possion
CCD electronic noise, dark current
CCD has two different type, back-end and front-end this means where is all the electronic are

Back-thinned have higher QE due to that

CCD are linear

Go to the lab to work on the CCD cameras

we take many times of the exposeture time from 60s to 5s

Also three bias image and three flat image

We did that by put a paper in front of the CCD camera

We will need to work on some data from those picture

Class 2

Keep working on the CCD lab

We need to calaculate the Gain and the Read Noise

It is weird for the gain to negtive for our image but I think it is becuase some region
are broken

We will have time to look at the telescope Friday night

Class 3

Keep working on the CCD lab

Next part is finding the linear regime of the CCD which is not that hard
Just plot the average value compare to the time

The final part is the dark current which is caused by the thermal noise 
that the electron will move somehow in the chip which creat a current

Week 6

Class 1

ADU saturation 

in CCD we have to convert from analog to digital signals
ADC has a bits limits

Noise -The CCD equation
S/N 

Bias subtraction
bias current
bias level is not stable where we can not just set it to 0

Flat field 
pixel response is a function of wavelength - so we need flats for each filter we are using for data
Flat result in information about the pixel to pixel variation

Darks current: thermal current, often samll and change with time. 

Class 2
Data reduction
Install CCDProc
download some data from the arcset
It is important to vissally inspect all your data becuase it is possible for 
some missname, check the headers
combine bias frame to create a master bias frame

Class 3
We shift the coordinate a little to move the image a bit to avoid the overscan region
the dark dege of image are not part of the image.

Cosmic ray can cause small dot on the CCD

HCG 79 : group of galaxies called seyfert's sextet

The grating is projected onto the area with in the grey box 
The galaxy spectrum is in the inner box
blue box inside the grey box which the blue box contain the bright of the spectrum graph

There are gap in the wavelength that we can not get on the ground
We can use telescope on a plane or in space to avoid the gap

Week 7

Class 1

PSF(Point Spread Function)
system have aberrations that give shape to the images they are creating
Even with no aberrations, we get a shape like a ring around the main gaussian distruibute
sky background: the sky is glowing, a lot of things can cause it like ground light scattering in the nearby atmosphere
Also unresolved astronomical objects; the zodiacal light is caused by sunlight reflecting
Hydroxl emmission lines from the atmosphere cause a lot of narrow lines.

different photometric approaches
aperture photometric
PSF photometric

Class2
Keep working on the photometry lab. 
Using DAOStarFinder do find star in the picture where you can setup some parameter to change how many star you can
identify. 
Need to subtract the median, also need to cliped the background by some sigma to get the right number
tricky to let the image to show with the imshow function


Class 3
science paper is different than english paper
Need to be reproductable
paper section : 
Introduction, Methods/Data, Results/Discussion, conclution/Summary

Details: include/present your data
Include the theorem s and equations
Reference! your information comes from somewhere. Make sure to credit that work appropriatily
Can use wikipedia to start the formation of your reference. Like look at what paper they are referencing 
plots:
Be legible, have labels, have captions, be referred to the text of the paper

Week 8

Class 1

Working on the final paper, we did a peer review on this paper.
I am working on the habitability of plaent in binary star system, the major challenge is how to do the analysis
I have see many paper on this topic, they introduced many way to tacle this problem but many of them are too deep 
some of them is about the habitable zone, my thought on this is to first analysis the orbit satbility, second is to analysis
the flux on the planets by the two star, how are they changing and is it possible for any life to surrive under that intensity of energy

Still a long way to go, with the analysis and data reduction. 

Class 2

This time we are keep working on the photometry lab, Doing the aperture photometry this time with photutils, it is relative simple to work on this problem
because the aperture is a set value and the program is just add them all together to get the flux

But it is interesting to learn about the DAOStarFinder which did not do photometry but find star on the image for you

Also we googled some fact about bees that are interesting, like you need two million flowers to make one pound of honey

Class 3

Keep working on the photometry lab, this time is the PSF fitting photometry, which is very hard to understand, it need many
parameters and the fitting model does some algrism that I did not quite understand. But it will fit for each star differently 
by working on different point seprate function. I think it is better for data with a lot of star with different size. 

Also introduced a new lab of using SDSS survey data, which will due next Friday, but there are paper need to work on on wednesday

Week 9 
Class 1
There are no class one, memorials day!

Class 2
Submitting the second draft of the paper, and working on the SDSS data match lab
Finding chart are for reference, when you want to see some star or galaxy you create a finding chart, in the case you are at a telescope
and you are not sure that if you are pointing to the right object, you can use the survey data to confirm it. 
It is suprise to know haw easy you can just download the survery data into a csv data,
and also surprise to know that there are more than 67000 object in a 0.5 degree radius of sky. 
we ploted many diagrm by using the data.

Class 3
Keep working on the SDSS data matching lab. Today, I match the SDSS data to the WISE data and found out that the ra and dec of a star are not 
constant, they could vary based on the equipment you are using. But the difference are relative small. 
Also plot the CMD but there are just too many star in the data, so a lot portion of it are just squized together. 

Week 10

Class 1
Today we mainly talks about the machine learning, what is it and how can we use it 
ML are basicly using data to train the compter to learn how to predict and process the feature data
The teacher say it is a fancy line fit which is totally true, it share the same hasic ideas.
I would image to use ML in computer vision.
Need to finish the lab about ML on Friday

Class 2
Today we keep working on the ML lab, this time we talks about some actual application to do ML on text
which we train the computer to learn how to ditinguish between good and bad movie reviews. 
Still need to work on the final paper ! Planet are tough to deal with

Class 3
The last day of class! Finishing the final paper, has been working so long about it. Finishing the ML lab
The end of the quarter of my undergraduate life ! Happy about it !